PreForma Interview: Highlights
Hermann Lewetz, Peter Bubestinger
12/16/2014

Dave, Jerome, Tessa

Dave: why did you decide to use ffv1 and not Matroska

Hermann: we wanted to use something where we we had access to the technology that creates the format; we wanted to use a very common format but didn’t work out, so they wanted to use the best thing they could find, which was ffv1; they thought about Matroska, but at the time it was quite new and not so widespread; and the AVI conatiner was very widespread and in use.  They were already worried about deciision to use ffv1 and since AVI is an old format they wouldn’t ahve to defend that as well. [Making this decision in 2009]

Peter: Matroska was still not widely accepted as a profesisonal container

Dave: would you make same decision now?

Peter: I don’t think from a professional viewpoint the position of Matroska has not changed that much; I like from the technical point of view.

Dave: for ffv1, same decision?

Both: Yes, now even easier

Dave: in codec selection openness is a big priority but so is state of standardization of the codec; ffv1 is largely self-standardized; how would you prioritize openness and standardization in these kind of decisions?

Peter:  Openness is extremely import in comparing standardization [audio cut out]; the imporatance of the standardization is political; it would make things easier. As a technician/developer, if I have right to use source code as I wish, I can archive my source code and this is worth more to sustainability than having a paper which may or may not match my actual implementations.

Dave:  ...any containers you worked with you struggled to understand the technology?

Peter: some but not too many MXF files; not just during evaluation of which format to use but from broadcasters; but some times some parts worked, some didn’t, and you couldn’t figure out what was going on.  Born-digital files created in unknown conditions.  Playing back with VLC worked fine, but transcoding it caused the audio to not work.

Dave:  [question]

Hermann: What I’ve learned in 4 years about ffv1 is it just works; we can migrate from this without a loss, but meanwhile I don’t think I’ve thought about migrating

Peter: to be less afraid of using something because everyone is using something else. afer 5 years, many institutions I’ve talked with, they were very skeptical about something new working.  This first step of trying something that is not accepted within the community or domain we’re working in.  And I’ve also seen that in other areas where IT is used and people are super cautious.

Hermann: in the beginning, I tried to find people; I talked with James Snyder and I tried to find out why jpeg2000 was so important to him, what he thinks about another option.  I had the same doubts; if this is so good, why weren’t other people using it or trying it?

Dave: talk more about conformance and valdiation; how do you assess qualitiy or conformance? Workflow for conformance checking?

Peter:  ffmpeg running for transcoding; autocreate access copy [missed]; if mpeg plays well audio is there from beginning to end, everythng--we do not deeply inspect bitstream for standards compliance; but we have ffmpeg tell us if something is wrong. I don’t think there is a need to do bitstream analysis, but it would be really nice for the newer version to know whether the right parameters have actually been set. Currently I don’t know if there is a possibility of actually checking that.

Dave: Refers to ffmpeg's -debug 1 option for analysis.

Hermann: necessary to have it in a standard workflow; it would be great to have it 

Peter: ran massive test suites; what is lacking there are FATE tests.  [Test-driven development!]  I’m a bit afraid of silent regressions happen.

Hermann: another advantage of ffv1; there are few different implementations; few implemenations, all use the same implmentations; what I fear is moment when big vendors accept ffv1 as a standard and they start to create implement different implementations; same thing as happened to jpeg2000.  A standardization/implementation checker would be incredibly important now.

Peter: people who intend to buy any product using ffv1 make sure that implementation conforms to the your [preforma] conformance checks. [Will send citation for AMIA-list quote]

Erik:  reformatting workflow?

Hermann: when we ingest analog material we directly ingest in ffv1; no intermediate format

Erik:  ffv1 not too incorporated with analog-digital converters

Hermann: we started having a converter converting all into SDI; and we have a [something] card with; using ffshort trial [check recording]; but beause we are not very happy with the converters, we will try some other options. 

Peter: but itwas not necessary to have ffv1 directly in the confirm hardware.  It turned out in the past hardware impementations might be nice but very often you’re locked into whatever they offer you and hae not ability to change it.  Other parts of workflow where we use ffv1: for borndigital we have whitelist of codecs that we allow into archive for the time being because of space considerations, so we don’t transcode to fffv1; everything else is blown up to ffv1.
[check recording]

A very important factor is support of ffv1 in tools used through tool chain. we use kdenlive and virutaldub.
